Home-Orchestra


About-Orchestra
Founded in the year 1912, our esteemed orchestra holds a rich and storied history spanning over a century. 
With a vision to cultivate a deep appreciation for music and provide a platform for exceptional talent, 
our orchestra began as a small group of dedicated musicians who shared a passion for classical compositions. 
Throughout the years, we have expanded our repertoire, collaborated with renowned soloists, and performed in prestigious venues around the world. 
Our commitment to musical excellence and community outreach has led to the establishment of a comprehensive music education program, 
offering lessons to both new and existing players, with a special focus on nurturing the talents of children. 
As we continue to flourish and inspire generations of musicians, we remain steadfast in our mission to uplift souls through the power of orchestral music.


About-Director
Ramona is the current director of the Allegro Symphony Orchestra and Strings Group.
Coming from a family with strong musical ties Ramona grew up listening to all types of music and being encouraged to practice and play whatever she could.
Under her lead Allegro Symphony Orchestra has grown immensely, collaborating with our sister groups the orchestra has double in size since her joining.
The orchestra has also had the opportunity to perform not only also all over the country but also abroad with our European peers.
We know that Ramona always pushes for more and encourages people to try their best and we are excited to see where the group goes next.


About-Conductor
Robert has been a keen musician and conductor since early childhood.
After playing the oboe and piano for primarily London Mahler Orchestra Robert begun conducting and performed in many leading orchestras.
Robert become lead conductor of Allegro Symphony Orchestra in 2011 and has helped the Group thrive in the years since.
He also leads and helps out with the Strings Quartets despite his expertise being in Woodwind music.


About-Violinist
Nina began learning the violing at the age of 8 and has particpated in orchestras and concerts ever since.
Coming from a family with little music background she quickly showed skill and determination and worked her way up the London College of Music grades.
After a break from public music due to moving Nine joined Allegro Symphony Orchestra in June 2015 and became the Principle Violinst in 2019.
As well as violin Nina also plays piano, harp and piccolo at a proffesional level.


About-Cellist
Yasmin started playing the cello from the age of 5. Participating in regular orchestra's and school performanaces she made a name for herself from this early age.
Before graduating high school Yasmin earned her Diploma in Music at the age of 15.
Yasmin also has links to the original founders of the Strings Group being the granddaughter of Ahmad Farzad.
She become Lead Cellist of the Allegro Symphony Orchestra and Strings Group in 2020 at the age of 22.


Class-Orchesta
Our orchestra is our defining feature. Once a week players are greatly encouraged to meet up and play with other instrument groups. <br>
During this time musical and key skills are honed and developed. <br>
We practice regurlaly, this music then comes together for periodic concerts and shows, about once a quarter. Performing in public is necessary for any musiciain and players get this great opportunity to be noticed as well as provide for the public. 

Junior players should also play with their age group. Working together is a core skill for any player and it is extremely likely during their musical liftetime players will have to play in a group and learn how the different groups and instruments work together.
This is also a great time to learn how to keep time and be directed by a conductor who will teach the students to work with each other and how by coming together different people and instruments can create something much greater than any individual sound.
Juniors also play shows and concerts as a starter to our main orchestra where appropiate.


Class-Quartet
Allegro Symphony Strings Group originally starter out as a Strings Quarter when 4 new musiciains met up to play together and started performing on the street for the public soon after,
As the group grew the 4 founders grew into a full orchestra by collaborating with others and started offering private lessons to help other players improve their skills.
However they still played together once a week and we have kept this tradition alive.
Once a week a quartet of two violins, a viola and a cello will meet up to train and perfect.
This is expected to be by themselves, however a conductor or teacher will often go to offer advice and help where they can.
The quartets will sometimes play in concerts or shows depending on demand and scheduling.


Class-Lessons
Every player needs to develop their musical skills. Learning nevers stops at any knowledege level or age.
From our most inital of beginners to the Section Leads, all must regurlarly practice and receive help and postivie critisim from an external listener who can point out areas to improve in.
Players and teachers are matched up in with the same instruments to offer the most expert of advice, each player is expected to be able to accompany on the piano too.
This will develop time keeping skills and other instrument collaboration in new players and offer a stable accompiament to professional players.
Personal lessons are offered at least once a week but students can privately communnicate with their mentors to do more if possible. 


Contact-Signup
Join our esteemed music academy and exhilarating orchestra by filling out the signup form below. 
Whether you're a budding musician or an experienced instrumentalist, our comprehensive lesson program offers tailored instruction for all skill levels. 
Immerse yourself in the world of symphonic music and connect with fellow passionate musicians, as you prepare for unforgettable performances on grand stages. 
Don't miss this incredible opportunity to hone your craft, expand your repertoire, and be part of a dynamic ensemble. 
Complete the signup form now and embark on a musical journey like no other.


Contact-Newsletter
Sign up to our newsletter to hear about special guest musicians and conductors. We also provide information about concerts and public performances.
We look forward to hearing from you!